“Cross-Platform Sentiment Analysis”
Submitted by:
Ajay Juyal

Under the guidance of
Mr Neeraj Panwar
(Assistant Professor)

Graphic Era Hill University, Dehradun
Bachelor Of Computer Applications
School Of Computing
Department Of Computer Applications
Date:10/06/2025

1

CERTIFICATE

This is to certify that the thesis titled “Cross-Platform Sentiment Analysis” submitted by Ajay
Juyal, to Graphic Era Hill University for the award of the degree of Bachelor of Computer
Application, is a bona fide record of the research work done by him under our supervision.
The contents of this project in full or in parts have not been submitted to any other Institute or
University for the award of any degree or diploma.

Neeraj Panwar
(Assistant Professor)
GEHU,Dehradun
Place: Dehradun
Date: 10/06/2025

2

ACKNOWLEDGEMENT

I would like to express my heartfelt gratitude to Mr. Neeraj Panwar, my professor, for his
invaluable support and guidance throughout this project. His expertise, encouragement, and
constructive feedback have been instrumental in successfully completing this work.
This project has been a tremendous learning experience, and I am deeply thankful for the
opportunity to work under his mentorship.
Thank you.

Ajay Juyal
07
2221095

3

ABSTRACT
In the digital age, public sentiment plays a critical role in shaping trends, influencing public
opinion, and guiding business decisions. Social media platforms such as Tumblr, YouTube,
and Reddit generate vast amounts of user-generated content that reflect real-time public
sentiment. This project, titled "Cross-Platform Sentiment Analysis," aims to harness the
potential of live data from these platforms to provide meaningful insights through sentiment
analysis.
The core objective of this project is to develop a real-time system that collects data using the
official APIs of Tumblr, YouTube, and Reddit, analyzes the sentiment expressed in this
content using Natural Language Processing (NLP) techniques, and presents the results
through an interactive and intuitive Streamlit dashboard. The project leverages the VADER
(Valence Aware Dictionary for Sentiment Reasoning) model—a lexicon and rule-based
sentiment analysis tool optimized for social media text—to classify sentiments into positive,
negative, or neutral categories.
A key feature of this project is its ability to work with live data, automatically fetching recent
posts, comments, and discussions relevant to user-defined keywords or topics. The system
then processes and visualizes the sentiment distribution across all three platforms, enabling
users to observe real-time public opinion dynamics.
For scalability, reproducibility, and continuous integration/deployment (CI/CD), the entire
project is Dockerized and deployed on AWS EC2, with automated build and deployment
pipelines configured using Jenkins. This ensures that the system remains robust, secure, and
maintainable over time.
The project not only demonstrates technical proficiency in data engineering, NLP, and fullstack deployment but also serves as a valuable tool for researchers, marketers, and analysts
who need to track cross-platform sentiment trends in real-time.

4

TABLE OF CONTENTS
1. Introduction………………………………………………………6
1.1. Introduction to stay-Hub
1.2. Features
1.3. Structure

2. Implementation…………………………………………………13
2.1. System Requirements
2.2. Methodologies
2.3. Tools and Technologies
2.3.1. Programming Language
2.3.2. Data Analysis and Sentiment Modeling
2.3.3. APIs and Data Sources
2.3.4. Dashboard and UI
2.3.5. Containerization and Deployment
2.3.6. CI/CD Automation
2.3.7. Authentication and Enviroment Management
2.3.8. Package and Dependency Management
2.3.9. Testing Tool
2.3.10. Code Management

3. Challenges Faced………………………………………………..20
3.1. Real-Time Challenges
3.2. Technologies Related Challenges

4. Future Enhancements…………………………………………..24
4.1. Updates and feedback

5. Conclusion and Future Scope…………………………………..26
5.1. Conclusion
5.2. How it will make impact in market

6. Appendix………………………………………………………...29
6.1. Code Snippet
6.2. Snapshot

7. References……………………………………………………….37
7.1. Documentation and official resources

5

INTRODUCTION
1.1 Introduction to Cross-Platform Sentiment Analysis
With the exponential growth of digital content, social media platforms have emerged as
powerful tools for communication, opinion sharing, and information dissemination. Platforms
such as Tumblr, YouTube, and Reddit host millions of user interactions daily, capturing public
sentiments on a wide range of topics—from politics and entertainment to technology and
global events. Analyzing these sentiments provides valuable insights into public opinion
trends and collective human behavior.
Sentiment analysis, also known as opinion mining, is a subfield of Natural Language
Processing (NLP) that focuses on identifying and categorizing sentiments expressed in
textual data. Traditional sentiment analysis models rely on static datasets, limiting their
ability to reflect current trends or changes in public opinion. In contrast, this project—CrossPlatform Sentiment Analysis—focuses on gathering real-time data from multiple social media
platforms and analyzing it dynamically to provide live sentiment tracking.
The primary objective of the project is to build a system that:


Collects live textual data from Tumblr, YouTube, and Reddit using their official APIs,



Processes this data using the VADER sentiment analysis model, which is particularly
well-suited for short social media texts and slang,



Displays the sentiment results in a user-friendly Streamlit dashboard,



And ensures scalability and automation by deploying the application on AWS EC2
with Docker containers and Jenkins for continuous integration and deployment
(CI/CD).

The VADER (Valence Aware Dictionary for Sentiment Reasoning) model is a lexicon and
rule-based sentiment analysis tool designed specifically for sentiments expressed in social
media. It is capable of detecting sentiment polarity (positive, negative, neutral) as well as the
intensity of sentiment in the given text. By applying VADER to live social media content, the
project can reveal how users across different platforms feel about any particular topic in realtime.
To facilitate visualization and interaction, a Streamlit dashboard was developed. This
dashboard allows users to input keywords or topics of interest, view real-time sentiment
distribution across the three platforms, and monitor changes in sentiment over time. It bridges
the gap between raw data and actionable insights, making the analysis accessible even to nontechnical users.

6

Furthermore, to ensure that the application is maintainable, scalable, and deployable across
different environments, Docker is used to containerize the application. The entire pipeline is
deployed on an AWS EC2 instance, providing a reliable and secure cloud infrastructure.
Jenkins is integrated to automate the build, test, and deployment processes, forming a
complete CI/CD pipeline for efficient development and delivery.
In conclusion, this project showcases the integration of live data gathering, NLP-based
sentiment analysis, interactive dashboards, and full-stack DevOps practices. It serves as a
real-world application of machine learning, cloud computing, and software engineering
principles—providing a comprehensive view of cross-platform public sentiment in real time.

1.2 Features

he Cross-Platform Sentiment Analysis project is built to be practical, user-friendly, scalable,
and insightful. It integrates data science, web technologies, and DevOps to deliver a complete
end-to-end solution. Below is a breakdown of its most important features:

Live Data Collection from Multiple Platforms


APIs Used: Official APIs from Tumblr, YouTube, and Reddit.



Functionality: Users can input a keyword or topic, and the system fetches real-time
data (posts, comments, video titles, etc.) from all three platforms.



Purpose: Enables the system to reflect the current public sentiment rather than
relying on outdated or static datasets.

Cross-Platform Sentiment Comparison


Unique Angle: Unlike most sentiment analysis tools that focus on one platform, this
project analyzes sentiment across Tumblr, YouTube, and Reddit simultaneously.



Advantage: Users get a more diverse and comprehensive view of public opinion,
helping to identify differences in how each platform perceives the same topic.

Sentiment Analysis Using VADER


Model Used: VADER (Valence Aware Dictionary and Sentiment Reasoner), a rulebased model optimized for social media content.



Sentiment Classes: The model classifies text into:
o

Positive

o

Negative
7

o

Neutral



Output: Also provides a compound score representing the overall sentiment intensity.



Why VADER: Ideal for short-form, informal, and emoji-rich social media content. It
handles slang, emojis, negations, and capitalization better than many traditional
models.

Interactive Streamlit Dashboard


UI/UX: Built using Streamlit, a fast and modern Python web framework.



Features:



o

User inputs for keyword/topic

o

Live data display (platform-wise)

o

Real-time sentiment breakdown (positive, negative, neutral)

o

Bar charts, pie charts, or time-series graphs for easy interpretation

o

Clean and responsive interface

Usefulness: Makes complex analysis accessible to non-technical users such as
marketers, content creators, and researchers.

Real-Time Updates and Auto Refresh


Functionality: The dashboard can be set to refresh automatically to update sentiment
scores with new data.



Advantage: Keeps users informed with the most current sentiment trends, crucial
during live events (e.g., elections, product launches, controversies).

Scalable & Portable via Docker


Dockerization: The entire application (data collection, processing, and dashboard) is
containerized using Docker.



Benefits:
o

Easy to deploy on any system (cross-platform)

o

Isolation of dependencies

o

Simplifies environment setup and ensures consistency

Cloud Deployment on AWS EC2


Hosting: The application runs on an Amazon EC2 instance, providing reliable uptime
and access over the web.



Advantages:
8

o

Scalability and flexibility

o

Secure and cost-efficient infrastructure

o

Accessible anywhere via a public IP or domain

Continuous Integration/Deployment with Jenkins




CI/CD Pipeline:
o

Jenkins automates code build, test, and deployment processes.

o

Every code push or update triggers the pipeline to rebuild and redeploy the
app on EC2.

Benefits:
o

Reduces human error

o

Speeds up development iterations

o

Keeps the production environment up-to-date automatically

Secure API Key Handling


Security Practice: All API keys and secrets are stored using environment variables or
.env files.



Purpose: Prevents accidental exposure of sensitive credentials in source code or
version control (e.g., GitHub).

Modular and Extensible Design


Architecture: The system is built with modularity in mind—each component (data
collection, analysis, dashboard, deployment) can be updated or replaced
independently.



Future Proofing:
o

Easy to integrate new platforms like Twitter/X, Instagram, or LinkedIn

o

Can be upgraded to use deep learning models like BERT or RoBERTa

1.3 Structure

The Cross-Platform Sentiment Analysis project is structured in a modular, maintainable way,
with each file and folder responsible for a specific part of the system's functionality. The
architecture is organized into four main layers: API Integration, Sentiment Analysis,
Dashboard UI, and Deployment & Configuration.
9

project-root/
├── __pycache__/
├── venv/
├── .env
├── .gitignore
├── main.py
├── flask_callback_server.py
├── reddit_api.py
├── tumblr_api.py
├── tumblr_oauth.py
├── youtube_api.py
├── sentiment.py
├── test_reddit.py
├── requirements.txt
├── Dockerfile
└── Jenkinsfile

1. __pycache__/


This directory is automatically created by Python to store the compiled bytecode files
of your Python scripts. It improves loading speed but does not contain any source
code you edit.

2. venv/


The virtual environment folder contains a self-contained Python environment with all
the libraries and dependencies your project requires. Using a virtual environment
avoids conflicts between packages used in different projects.

3. .env


This file holds sensitive information such as API keys, tokens, and environmentspecific variables. It is kept separate from the code to enhance security and is loaded
at runtime to configure the app dynamically.
10

4. .gitignore


This file lists files and directories that should be ignored by Git version control.
Typically, it includes venv/, __pycache__/, .env, and other local or system files that
shouldn’t be committed to the repository.

5. main.py


The main entry point of the application. It launches the Streamlit dashboard,
integrates all other modules, handles user inputs, and displays the results of sentiment
analysis dynamically.

6. flask_callback_server.py


A minimal Flask web server that handles OAuth callback requests, necessary for
authenticating certain APIs (such as Tumblr). It listens for OAuth redirects and
manages token exchanges.

7. reddit_api.py


Contains the logic to connect to Reddit’s API, query posts or comments based on user
input, and return raw textual data for sentiment analysis.

8. tumblr_api.py


Handles fetching posts from Tumblr using authenticated API calls. This module relies
on tumblr_oauth.py for managing OAuth authentication.

9. tumblr_oauth.py


Manages the OAuth 1.0a flow required by Tumblr’s API, including generating signed
requests, managing tokens, and refreshing credentials as needed.

10. youtube_api.py


Interacts with the YouTube Data API to search for videos and retrieve comments,
which are then used as input for sentiment evaluation.

11. sentiment.py


Implements the core sentiment analysis functionality using the VADER sentiment
analysis model. This module processes text data and classifies it into positive, neutral,
or negative sentiments with associated scores.

12. test_reddit.py


A testing script designed to verify the functionality and reliability of the Reddit API
integration. It helps ensure that the API connection and data fetching operate as
expected.
11

13. requirements.txt


Lists all external Python libraries and dependencies that must be installed for the
project to run correctly. This file facilitates environment setup and deployment
consistency.

14. Dockerfile


Contains instructions for building a Docker container image that packages the entire
application and its dependencies into a portable environment. This ensures that the
application runs consistently across different platforms and simplifies deployment.

15. Jenkinsfile


Defines the Continuous Integration and Continuous Deployment (CI/CD) pipeline
used by Jenkins. It automates tasks such as fetching code from version control,
running tests, building Docker images, and deploying the application to the AWS EC2
instance.

12

IMPLEMENTATION
2.1 System Requirements
To successfully build, run, and maintain the Cross-Platform Sentiment Analysis project,
ensure your system meets the following requirements:

Hardware Requirements:
1. Processor: Dual-core or higher (Intel i3/i5/i7 or AMD equivalent).
2. RAM: Minimum 4GB (8GB recommended for optimal performance, especially when
running Docker containers).
3. Storage: At least 1GB of free disk space for project files, dependencies, and local
caching of API data.

Software Requirements:
1. Operating System:
o

Local Development: Windows 10/11, macOS, or Linux.

o

Deployment: Ubuntu 20.04 LTS (or higher) on AWS EC2 instance.

2. Development Environment:
o

Python 3.8 or higher installed locally and on the EC2 instance.

o

Python package manager (pip) for managing dependencies.

3. APIs and Libraries:
o

Reddit API access with developer credentials.

o

YouTube Data API v3 access via Google Cloud API key.

o

Tumblr API access with OAuth credentials.

o

VADER Sentiment Analysis model (installed via Python libraries).

4. Containerization and Deployment:
o

Docker installed on local machine and Ubuntu EC2 instance.

o

AWS EC2 instance running Ubuntu for hosting the application.

o

Jenkins installed (locally or on a server) to automate build and deployment
pipelines.
13

5. Additional Tools:
o

Code Editor: Vim/Nano editor or Visual Studio Code or any Python-supported
IDE.

o

Version Control: Git for source code management.

o

Postman (optional) for API testing.

Dependencies:


streamlit



requests



vaderSentiment



google-api-python-client



praw or asyncpraw



flask



Other dependencies listed in requirements.txt

Networking Requirements:
1. Internet Connection: Required for live API access (Reddit, YouTube, Tumblr) and
for connecting to AWS services.
2. Ports:
o

Streamlit default port (8501) must be open on EC2 security group.

o

Flask callback server port (e.g., 5000) must also be open for OAuth redirects.

Optional:


Browsers: Latest Google Chrome, Firefox, or Edge for dashboard access.



AWS CLI for managing EC2 instance and deployments from command line.

2.2 Methodologies

The methodology outlines the systematic approach taken to develop the Cross-Platform
Sentiment Analysis project, including data acquisition, processing, analysis, visualization,
and deployment phases. This ensures a robust, scalable, and maintainable application capable
of performing real-time sentiment analysis across multiple social media platforms.

Data Acquisition
14





API Integration:
The project connects with three major social media platforms — Reddit, YouTube,
and Tumblr — via their respective APIs.
o

Reddit API: Using the praw (Python Reddit API Wrapper) library to
authenticate and fetch posts and comments based on user-provided keywords
or subreddits.

o

YouTube Data API: Utilizing Google’s API client to retrieve video metadata
and comments related to specific search queries or channels.

o

Tumblr API: Accessing Tumblr posts through authenticated requests using
OAuth 1.0a protocol, managed via a custom Flask callback server to handle
OAuth token exchanges securely.

Real-Time Data Fetching:
User inputs keywords or topics via the Streamlit dashboard, triggering live API calls
to fetch the most recent data from all three platforms simultaneously. This allows the
system to provide up-to-date sentiment insights.

Data Preprocessing


Text Extraction:
The raw data fetched from APIs consists of post titles, bodies, comments, and
metadata. Only relevant text content is extracted for sentiment evaluation.



Cleaning:
The text data undergoes preprocessing steps such as:
o

Removing URLs, special characters, and emojis.

o

Normalizing case (converting to lowercase).

o

Removing stopwords or irrelevant filler words if needed.

Sentiment Analysis


Model Choice:
The VADER (Valence Aware Dictionary and sEntiment Reasoner) model is selected
for sentiment analysis due to its suitability for social media text, ease of use, and
effectiveness in capturing the sentiment of short, informal text.



Sentiment Scoring:
Each text snippet is analyzed by VADER, which outputs sentiment scores classified
as:
o

Positive

o

Neutral

15

o



Negative
along with a compound score representing overall sentiment intensity.

Aggregation:
Sentiment scores from all posts and comments retrieved per platform are aggregated
to provide an overall sentiment metric for each platform and combined cross-platform
results

Visualization and Dashboard


Streamlit Dashboard:
The processed sentiment data is visualized in a user-friendly interface built with
Streamlit. Features include:
o

Input field for entering keywords/topics.

o

Real-time display of sentiment analysis results for each platform and
combined data.

o

Graphs and charts to represent sentiment distribution and trends (e.g., pie
charts, bar graphs).

o

Dynamic updates triggered by user interaction without needing to refresh the
page manually.

Authentication Handling


OAuth for Tumblr:
Since Tumblr API requires OAuth 1.0a authentication, a small Flask-based callback
server handles OAuth token requests and responses, ensuring secure and seamless
authentication without exposing credentials.

Testing and Validation


Unit Testing:
Individual API modules (e.g., reddit_api.py) include test scripts (test_reddit.py) to
verify successful connection, data fetching, and error handling.



Integration Testing:
Tests ensure that data flows correctly from API fetching to sentiment processing and
finally to dashboard visualization.



Performance Testing:
The system is tested for responsiveness and reliability when fetching large amounts of
data or when API rate limits are approached.

Deployment


Containerization with Docker:
The entire application, including Python dependencies and environment
16

configurations, is packaged into a Docker container to ensure consistent environments
across development and production.


AWS EC2 Deployment:
The Docker container is deployed on an Ubuntu 20.04 LTS AWS EC2 instance
configured with necessary security groups and open ports. This setup enables scalable
and remote access to the dashboard.



Continuous Integration/Continuous Deployment (CI/CD):
Jenkins is configured to automate:
o

Pulling the latest code from the Git repository.

o

Building and testing the Docker image.

o

Deploying the updated container on the EC2 instance.
This pipeline ensures smooth and efficient updates to the live system with
minimal downtime.

2.3 Tools and Technologies
The Cross-Platform Sentiment Analysis project employs a comprehensive range of tools and
technologies across software development, data acquisition, sentiment analysis, data
visualization, containerization, deployment, and continuous integration. Each component has
been carefully selected to ensure reliability, efficiency, scalability, and ease of use throughout
the project's lifecycle.

Programming Language


Python 3.8 or higher
Python is the core programming language used in this project. Its simplicity,
readability, and strong ecosystem of libraries make it ideal for building API
integrations, handling data, performing sentiment analysis, and constructing the
Streamlit dashboard.

Data Analysis and Sentiment Modeling




VADER (Valence Aware Dictionary and Sentiment Reasoner)
VADER is a rule-based sentiment analysis tool specifically tuned for sentiments
expressed in social media content. It is lexicon-based and does not require any
machine learning model training. VADER provides polarity scores that classify the
input text as positive, neutral, or negative along with a compound score that captures
overall sentiment intensity.
Pandas and NumPy (used optionally)
These are Python libraries that may be used to handle tabular data and perform
17

numerical operations efficiently. Pandas is useful for data organization, filtering, and
aggregation, while NumPy enhances performance for numerical computations.

APIs and Data Sources






Reddit API (via PRAW)
The project uses Reddit’s official API through the PRAW (Python Reddit API
Wrapper) library to search, retrieve, and parse Reddit posts and comments. The API
allows keyword-based searches and data extraction for further sentiment analysis.
YouTube Data API v3
This API is part of Google Cloud's platform and enables access to YouTube video
metadata and comment threads. The project retrieves video titles, descriptions, and
top-level comments related to a user-provided keyword or topic.
Tumblr API
Tumblr provides a RESTful API for accessing blog posts and metadata. Since Tumblr
uses OAuth 1.0a for authentication, the application includes a custom OAuth flow
using Flask to securely obtain access tokens required for data retrieval.

Dashboard and User Interface


Streamlit
Streamlit is a Python-based open-source framework that simplifies the process of
building interactive web applications and dashboards. In this project, it is used to
allow users to enter keywords, trigger API requests, and view sentiment analysis
results in real time with visualizations like bar charts and pie charts. It also supports
auto-refresh features for dynamic updates.

Containerization and Deployment




Docker
Docker is used to package the entire application, including source code, dependencies,
and environment variables, into isolated containers. This ensures that the application
runs consistently across different machines and eliminates issues caused by
dependency mismatches. Docker simplifies testing, deployment, and maintenance.
AWS EC2 (Ubuntu Instance)
The project is deployed on an Ubuntu 20.04 LTS instance hosted on Amazon Web
Services (AWS) Elastic Compute Cloud (EC2). The instance serves as a cloud server
for running the Dockerized application and exposes the Streamlit dashboard over the
internet. The Ubuntu environment is lightweight, secure, and compatible with Docker
and Python-based applications.

CI/CD Automation


Jenkins
Jenkins is an automation server used to implement Continuous Integration and
Continuous Deployment (CI/CD) pipelines. In this project, Jenkins automatically
pulls updated code from the Git repository, builds a new Docker image, runs tests, and
18

redeploys the application to the EC2 instance. This automation reduces manual errors,
improves deployment speed, and maintains consistency across versions.

Authentication and Environment Management




Flask
Flask is a lightweight web framework used in this project to implement a callback
server for Tumblr’s OAuth authentication. This server handles redirection and token
exchanges required for secure API access. It ensures sensitive OAuth credentials are
never exposed in the front end.
dotenv and .env Files
Environment variables such as API keys, client secrets, and access tokens are stored
in a .env file. The python-dotenv package loads these variables into the application
securely. This method avoids hardcoding sensitive information into the codebase and
supports better configuration management.

Package and Dependency Management




pip and requirements.txt
The Python package manager pip is used to install and manage dependencies. The
requirements.txt file lists all the packages and their versions required to run the
project. This ensures that the environment is reproducible and consistent across
machines.
Virtualenv
Virtual environments isolate project-specific dependencies from the global Python
environment. This helps prevent version conflicts between different Python projects
and keeps the development environment clean.

Testing Tools




Postman
Postman is used during development to test API endpoints, send custom HTTP
requests, and debug issues. It helps in validating that the API responses are correct
before integrating them into the code.
Custom Python Test Scripts
The project includes test scripts like test_reddit.py that help verify the functionality of
individual modules. These tests confirm that data can be fetched correctly from APIs
and that the application behaves as expected.

Code Management


Git and GitHub
Git is used for version control, enabling collaborative development and maintaining a
history of changes. GitHub serves as the remote repository for hosting source code
and integrates with Jenkins for automated deployment. Version control ensures
traceability, facilitates rollbacks, and improves collaboration across team members
19

CHALLENGES FACED
3.1 Real Time Challenges

Real-time data processing refers to collecting, analyzing, and presenting data with minimal
delay. This project aimed to fetch live data from Reddit, YouTube, and Tumblr, perform
sentiment analysis on it, and display the results immediately on a Streamlit dashboard.
Implementing this functionality presented several real-time challenges:

API Rate Limiting and Throttling
Every platform involved—Reddit, YouTube, and Tumblr—imposes strict API rate limits to
prevent misuse and server overload. These limits define how many requests can be made in a
set time window, such as per minute or per day. During real-time sentiment analysis, frequent
data requests were necessary to ensure updated insights, but hitting these rate limits often
caused the APIs to block or delay responses. This disrupted the user experience, as the
dashboard either showed outdated data or none at all. To overcome this, request throttling
was implemented to pace the number of API calls within acceptable limits. Retry logic helped
manage temporary blocks, and instead of fetching large data sets occasionally, the system
fetched smaller data sets more frequently. This balance maintained a steady flow of live data
without exceeding limits.

Delayed API Responses
In some instances, the APIs—especially from Tumblr and YouTube—returned data with
noticeable latency. These delays were unpredictable and depended on network conditions and
platform load. Such delays had a direct impact on the dashboard, causing it to appear frozen
or unresponsive while waiting for API responses. This diminished the effectiveness of the
real-time experience, as users had to wait longer than expected for updated sentiments. To
resolve this, asynchronous API calls were used, allowing the dashboard to remain interactive
while waiting for data. In addition, Streamlit’s st.cache_data feature was used to store recent
results temporarily. This caching, combined with timers, ensured that the most recent
available data could be displayed even when the current fetch was delayed, creating a
smoother user experience.

Varying Data Availability
The availability of content for analysis varied greatly depending on the keyword entered. For
some topics, Reddit might yield thousands of results, while YouTube or Tumblr might return
20

very little or nothing at all. This inconsistency affected visualizations, causing blank sections
or skewed sentiment distributions that could mislead users. The challenge here was not
technical failure, but platform-specific data scarcity in real time. The solution involved
developing a more intelligent system that could detect such disparities and adapt accordingly.
If a platform had no new content, fallback messages were shown, and default placeholder
data was used to maintain the structure of the dashboard. The refresh logic was also adjusted
so that the dashboard could intelligently wait longer for data from slower or less responsive
platforms.

Data Parsing and Standardization
The project involved processing data from three completely different platforms, each with its
own data schema. Reddit provides a mix of posts and nested comments, YouTube offers
video metadata along with comment threads, and Tumblr shares textual blog content and
associated metadata. Parsing and normalizing this unstructured data into a consistent format
suitable for sentiment analysis proved to be a significant challenge. Real-time analysis
required that this conversion be both fast and accurate. Separate parsing and formatting
scripts were written for each platform to extract relevant content, standardize the fields (e.g.,
text, timestamp, platform name), and prepare the data for uniform processing by the VADER
sentiment analysis model. This modular approach ensured real-time compatibility while
maintaining data integrity.

Auto-Refreshing the Dashboard
Streamlit, while excellent for building data dashboards, does not support background tasks or
continuous auto-refresh natively. This posed a challenge for displaying live sentiment results
because users had to manually refresh the page to get updated insights. A real-time dashboard
is expected to reflect data changes instantly or at regular intervals without user intervention.
To address this, Streamlit’s session state and experimental rerun features were utilized.
Countdown timers were added to automatically refresh the dashboard after a set interval,
simulating a real-time experience. While not a perfect substitute for true background
execution, this workaround allowed the dashboard to feel responsive and dynamic, aligning
with the goals of real-time sentiment tracking.

3.2. Technologies Related Challenges

Building this cross-platform project required integrating multiple APIs, managing various
technologies, and ensuring compatibility in deployment. Several technology-specific
challenges were encountered:

21

OAuth Authentication Complexity
Tumblr’s API requires OAuth 1.0a for authentication, which is significantly more complex
compared to the token-based approaches used by Reddit and YouTube. Unlike OAuth 2.0 or
simple API key methods, OAuth 1.0a involves creating a multi-step authentication process
that includes generating signatures, handling token requests, and managing user authorization
callbacks. This complexity became an obstacle, especially in a frontend-oriented project with
minimal backend infrastructure. To address this, a minimal Flask-based callback server was
developed specifically for handling the OAuth token flow. This server facilitated secure token
exchanges and maintained user sessions during Tumblr data retrieval.

Environment and Dependency Conflicts
Integrating various technologies such as Streamlit, Flask, OAuth libraries, Pandas, and
requests created a challenging environment for dependency management. Some packages had
conflicting requirements or behaved differently under different Python environments. These
conflicts often caused unexpected runtime errors or incompatibilities that hindered
development and deployment, especially in a Dockerized setup. To manage this, exact
versions of all required packages were defined in the requirements.txt file, and each
dependency was tested within a virtual environment. This practice ensured reproducibility
and eliminated version mismatch issues when running the project in containers or on cloud
infrastructure.

Secure API Key Handling
The project required multiple API credentials for Reddit, YouTube, and Tumblr. Storing these
keys insecurely in source files posed a risk of accidental exposure, especially when using Git
or deploying to cloud services like AWS EC2. Exposing such credentials could lead to
unauthorized usage and breach of API quotas. To ensure security, API keys were stored in
.env files during local development, which were explicitly ignored in Git using a .gitignore
rule. In production, the environment variables were set directly on the EC2 instance. This
dual approach ensured keys remained confidential and were appropriately accessible
depending on the environment.

Dockerizing a Multi-Module Project
The project included several interconnected Python modules such as API handlers, the
sentiment analysis logic, and the Streamlit frontend. Dockerizing this architecture proved
difficult because of the need to maintain proper file paths and ensure that all dependencies
and modules were available in the container. Early builds often failed due to unresolved
imports or missing files. To solve this, a carefully structured Dockerfile was created, setting
the correct working directory and copying all necessary files. The image was built to be
modular and self-contained, ensuring all scripts could interact seamlessly once the container
was running.
22

Jenkins Deployment Configuration
Automating the build and deployment process with Jenkins introduced complexity in
managing the continuous integration and delivery pipeline. Deploying to an AWS EC2
instance required configuring secure SSH access, handling environment variables, and
writing scripts to build and run Docker containers remotely. If any part of this setup—such as
permission settings or port forwarding—was misconfigured, the entire pipeline could fail.
Jenkins was configured to use SSH key pairs, and scripted build jobs were created to
automate the entire process, from pulling the latest code to rebuilding the Docker image and
restarting the container on the EC2 instance.

Limited EC2 Instance Resources
The project was deployed on a free-tier Ubuntu-based EC2 instance, which came with limited
CPU and RAM resources. Running multiple processes simultaneously—such as fetching data
from three APIs, performing sentiment analysis, and rendering visuals on Streamlit—stressed
the server's resources. This often led to crashes, slow responses, or memory overflows. To
mitigate this, the data load per API call was reduced, and memory-optimized logic was
implemented. The system was configured to fetch smaller datasets at more frequent intervals
and avoid unnecessary resource consumption, making it sustainable within the free-tier
limits.

Visualization and Data Binding in Streamlit
Displaying data from Reddit, YouTube, and Tumblr together in one dashboard introduced
visual and structural challenges. Differences in data volume or structure from each platform
could lead to unbalanced or cluttered displays. For example, if one API failed or returned too
much data, it could distort the layout or overwhelm the interface. To handle this, visualization
components were modularized using Streamlit’s containers and columns. Each platform’s
data was displayed in its own structured section, with independent charts and summaries.
This modular design preserved layout consistency, improved readability, and ensured that the
failure or absence of one data source didn’t affect the entire dashboard.

23

Future Enhancements
4.1 Updates and Feedback
Integration with More Platforms
Currently, the project focuses on Reddit, YouTube, and Tumblr for live sentiment data.
Expanding to additional social media platforms such as Twitter (X), Facebook, Instagram,
and LinkedIn would greatly increase the breadth and diversity of data. Each platform caters
to different user demographics and content types, providing richer, more comprehensive
sentiment insights. However, integrating these platforms requires understanding and
managing different API protocols, data formats, and rate limits. This expansion would enable
users to capture trends and opinions from a wider audience, making the analysis more
representative of public sentiment.

Enhanced Sentiment Analysis with NLP Models
The existing VADER model is rule-based and specifically optimized for social media text,
offering quick and reasonably accurate sentiment classification. Nonetheless, VADER
struggles with complex linguistic features such as sarcasm, irony, or nuanced context.
Integrating transformer-based Natural Language Processing (NLP) models like BERT,
RoBERTa, or DistilBERT would improve the system’s ability to understand context and
semantics deeply. These models leverage large-scale pretraining and fine-tuning to better
capture subtle sentiment cues, thereby increasing accuracy, especially on informal or complex
content. However, they also require more computational resources, which would affect
deployment and performance considerations.

User Authentication and Personalization
Adding user authentication will enable personalized experiences, allowing users to create
accounts and save preferences such as favorite keywords or topics for monitoring. Users
could access historical sentiment trends tailored to their interests and receive notifications via
email or in-app alerts when significant changes or spikes in sentiment occur. Personalization
enhances user engagement and makes the platform more useful for businesses, marketers, or
researchers by providing relevant, timely insights specific to their needs.

24

Advanced Visualization and Analytics
While the current dashboard provides basic visualizations, adding more sophisticated
analytics tools will enhance user understanding of the data. Time series graphs can show
sentiment trends over days or weeks, while word clouds highlight frequently mentioned terms
in posts and comments. Topic modeling can cluster discussions into themes, helping users
identify underlying conversations driving sentiment. Comparative graphs that break down
sentiment by platform or region provide more granular insights. Libraries like Plotly, Altair,
or D3.js enable highly interactive and visually appealing analytics, making the data easier to
interpret and act upon.

Historical Data Archiving and Analytics
At present, the system focuses on live data without storing historical sentiment information.
By implementing persistent storage for collected data—using databases or cloud storage—the
platform can offer users the ability to view and analyze sentiment trends over time. This
historical data supports deeper analytics, such as identifying cyclical patterns, measuring
campaign impacts, or training more sophisticated machine learning models. It adds
significant value for strategic decision-making and research purposes.

25

CONCLUSION AND FUTURE SCOPE
5.1 Conclusion
The Cross-Platform Sentiment Analysis project represents a significant step toward
harnessing the power of social media data to gain real-time insights into public opinion and
sentiment across multiple platforms. By integrating APIs from Reddit, YouTube, and Tumblr,
the system successfully collects live data streams, processes them using the VADER
sentiment analysis model, and presents the analyzed results on an intuitive and interactive
Streamlit dashboard. This multi-platform approach not only broadens the scope of sentiment
monitoring but also enhances the accuracy and reliability of the insights by capturing diverse
perspectives from various online communities.
The development of this project involved overcoming numerous technical challenges,
including handling API rate limits and throttling, managing OAuth authentication workflows
particularly for Tumblr, normalizing disparate data formats, and implementing efficient
asynchronous data fetching to maintain real-time performance. These challenges were met
with effective engineering solutions such as request throttling, retry mechanisms, creation of
a callback server for OAuth, and data normalization scripts that convert heterogeneous data
into a consistent format suitable for sentiment analysis.
Deployment considerations also played a crucial role in the project’s success. Containerizing
the application using Docker ensured environment consistency and simplified the deployment
process on an Ubuntu-based AWS EC2 instance. The integration of Jenkins for continuous
integration and deployment (CI/CD) further streamlined updates, automated testing, and
ensured that the application remained stable and up to date without manual intervention.
These practices demonstrate the project’s readiness for real-world use and its capacity for
scalability and maintainability.
From a user perspective, the Streamlit dashboard provides an accessible and dynamic
interface that allows real-time monitoring of sentiment trends. Despite some inherent
limitations of the VADER model—such as limited handling of sarcasm and complex
language nuances—the sentiment analysis delivered valuable directional insights that can
support brand management, market research, and social listening efforts.
Looking ahead, this project serves as a robust foundation for expanding to additional social
media platforms, incorporating more advanced natural language processing models, and
enhancing the user experience with features such as personalized alerts, historical data
analytics, and multilingual support. By continuing to evolve in these directions, the system
could become an indispensable tool for businesses, researchers, and policymakers aiming to
understand public sentiment and respond proactively to emerging trends.

26

In summary, the Cross-Platform Sentiment Analysis project showcases the effective
combination of data engineering, machine learning, cloud computing, and user-centric
design. It not only addresses the technical complexities involved in real-time multi-source
data processing but also delivers actionable insights through a coherent and scalable platform.
This project highlights the transformative potential of technology in making sense of the vast
and ever-changing social media landscape and paves the way for future innovations in
sentiment analysis and social data intelligence.

5.2 How it will make impact in market
The Cross-Platform Sentiment Analysis project holds significant potential to influence
various sectors by enabling businesses, researchers, and decision-makers to better understand
public opinion and trends in real-time across multiple social media platforms. Its impact in
the market can be analyzed from several key perspectives:

Enhanced Brand Monitoring and Reputation Management
Brands and companies can leverage this system to continuously monitor how their products,
services, or campaigns are perceived by consumers across Reddit, YouTube, and Tumblr.
Real-time sentiment insights help identify positive feedback and emerging issues before they
escalate, enabling timely responses to customer concerns. This proactive engagement
improves customer satisfaction, loyalty, and overall brand reputation.

Informed Marketing and Advertising Strategies
By analyzing sentiment data across platforms, marketing teams gain a deeper understanding
of audience reactions and preferences. This intelligence allows for more targeted campaigns,
better messaging, and efficient resource allocation. Understanding public sentiment in real
time also helps marketers adjust their strategies dynamically in response to market trends and
competitor activity, resulting in increased campaign effectiveness and ROI.

Competitive Intelligence and Market Research
The ability to aggregate and analyze sentiment from multiple sources provides businesses
with a comprehensive view of their competitors and industry landscape. It facilitates
benchmarking, identifies emerging trends, and uncovers gaps or opportunities in the market.
Researchers and analysts can use these insights to generate actionable reports that support
strategic planning and innovation.

Crisis Detection and Management
Organizations can detect sudden negative sentiment spikes related to product failures,
controversies, or misinformation by monitoring live social media data. Early detection
enables swift crisis management, minimizing damage and restoring public trust more
27

effectively. This capability is crucial in today’s fast-paced digital environment where news
spreads rapidly.

Supporting Data-Driven Decision Making
By offering a real-time, data-driven perspective on public opinion, the platform empowers
executives and decision-makers to base their actions on quantitative insights rather than
intuition. This reduces risk, improves forecasting accuracy, and promotes evidence-based
strategies across marketing, customer service, product development, and public relations.

Facilitating Research and Social Analysis
Beyond commercial uses, this tool can assist academic researchers, sociologists, and political
analysts in studying social behavior, public sentiment on policy issues, and cultural trends.
The ability to monitor multiple platforms simultaneously enriches the quality and scope of
social research.

Scalability for Emerging Markets and Diverse Use Cases
As the platform expands to include more social media sources and languages, its market
applicability will grow globally. It can be adapted for specific industries such as finance,
healthcare, entertainment, and government agencies, tailoring sentiment analysis to sectorspecific needs.

Cost-Effective and Accessible Solution
By utilizing open-source models like VADER and cloud infrastructure such as AWS EC2, the
system offers a cost-effective alternative to expensive commercial sentiment analysis tools.
The user-friendly Streamlit dashboard ensures accessibility for users without deep technical
expertise, broadening its adoption potential.

28

APPENDIX
6.1 Code Snippet

.env file
# reddit-api




REDDIT_CLIENT_ID=obGQW4OVYaxr7T4rqaqgsw
REDDIT_CLIENT_SECRET=20yFRLFtVV_9U7vk2gZtyH47WFFdig
REDDIT_USER_AGENT=sentiment_scripts by /u/Reasonable-Listen516

# tumblr-api





TUMBLR_API_KEY=33Bhcnn3axYKVmgrptKIRDdPpiQC8Dh0flFRcCpesQtmYA
pi9u
TUMBLR_API_SECRET=ZaNq8OBvsfxTv8jOehnq0DgNXPV4rHHLAQKPAkrno
VwxoMR1IH
TUMBLR_ACCESS_TOKEN=lJVr2lqoMYGytDwszE5ICUcLubF4ffCAQABmlxan
9CQALw8x7Q
TUMBLR_ACCESS_TOKEN_SECRET=
MRGjXmiQ6UBTSfnv4nvi07oDPjH5xSali04zX6E5cWuKFs5w61

#youtube-api


YOUTUBE_API_KEY=AIzaSyAqDEW_z3bGg-qzZh9EaSSpDtivRw8oczc

Sentiment.py
from vaderSentiment.vaderSentiment import SentimentIntensityAnalyzer
analyzer = SentimentIntensityAnalyzer()
def analyze_sentiment(text):
score = analyzer.polarity_scores(text)
compound = score['compound']
if compound >= 0.05:
return "Positive", compound
elif compound <= -0.05:
return "Negative", compound
29

else:
return "Neutral", compound

Main.py
import streamlit as st
import pandas as pd
import matplotlib.pyplot as plt
import time
import os
from dotenv import load_dotenv
dotenv_path = r"C:\Users\maukd\OneDrive\Pictures\ajay-project\.env"
load_dotenv(dotenv_path)
from reddit_api import fetch_reddit_comments_by_keyword,
fetch_reddit_comments_by_user
from youtube_api import fetch_youtube_comments, fetch_youtube_comments_by_channel
from tumblr_api import fetch_tumblr_posts, fetch_tumblr_posts_by_blog
from sentiment import analyze_sentiment
st.set_page_config(layout="wide")
st.title("🧠 Live Sentiment Analysis Dashboard")
platform = st.selectbox("Choose platform", ["Reddit", "YouTube", "Tumblr"])
if platform == "Reddit":
username = st.text_input("Enter Reddit username (leave empty to search keyword):")
if username:
query = None
else:
query = st.text_input("Enter keyword to search:")
elif platform == "YouTube":
username = st.text_input("Enter YouTube channel ID (leave empty if you want to input
video ID):")

30

query = st.text_input("Enter video ID (if channel ID empty):")
elif platform == "Tumblr":
username = st.text_input("Enter Tumblr blog name (leave empty to search by tag):")
if not username:
query = st.text_input("Enter tag to search:")
else:
query = None
limit = st.slider("How many items?", 5, 50, 20)
refresh = st.checkbox("🔄 Auto-refresh every 60 seconds")
last_updated = st.empty()
def analyze_platform(platform, username, query, limit):
try:
if platform == "Reddit":
if username:
return fetch_reddit_comments_by_user(username, limit)
elif query:
return fetch_reddit_comments_by_keyword(query, limit)
elif platform == "YouTube":
if username:
return fetch_youtube_comments_by_channel(username, limit)
elif query:
return fetch_youtube_comments(query, limit)
elif platform == "Tumblr":
if username:
return fetch_tumblr_posts_by_blog(username, limit)
elif query:
return fetch_tumblr_posts(query, limit)
except Exception as e:
st.error(f"Error fetching data: {e}")
31

return []
def run_analysis():
st.info("Fetching live data...")
comments = analyze_platform(platform, username, query, limit)
if not comments:
st.warning("No comments/posts found. Try a different input.")
return
results = []
for text in comments:
label, score = analyze_sentiment(text)
results.append({"Text": text, "Sentiment": label, "Score": score})
df = pd.DataFrame(results)
st.dataframe(df)
st.subheader("📊 Sentiment Distribution")
sentiment_counts = df["Sentiment"].value_counts()
fig, ax = plt.subplots()
ax.pie(sentiment_counts, labels=sentiment_counts.index, autopct="%1.1f%%")
st.pyplot(fig)
last_updated.text(f"Last updated at {time.strftime('%H:%M:%S')}")
if st.button("Analyze") or refresh:
while True:
run_analysis()
if not refresh:
break
time.sleep(60)
st.experimental_rerun()

32

6.2 Snapshot

DashBoard:

33

Sentimental Analysis:

34

AWS Deployment:

GitHub:

35

IDE:

CI/CD:

36

REFERENCES
7.1 Documentation and Official Resources
Programming Language & Core Tools


Python (Official Documentation)
https://docs.python.org/3/



pip (Python Package Installer)
https://pip.pypa.io/en/stable/

APIs & SDKs


Reddit API (via PRAW)
https://praw.readthedocs.io/



YouTube Data API (v3)
https://developers.google.com/youtube/v3



Tumblr API (v2)
https://www.tumblr.com/docs/en/api/v2

Natural Language Processing


VADER Sentiment Analysis
https://github.com/cjhutto/vaderSentiment



NLTK (Natural Language Toolkit)
https://www.nltk.org/

Web Dashboard Framework


Streamlit (Python Web App Framework)
https://docs.streamlit.io/

Containerization and DevOps


Docker (Containerization Platform)
https://docs.docker.com/



Docker Hub (Image Repository)
https://hub.docker.com/



Jenkins (CI/CD Automation Server)
https://www.jenkins.io/doc/
37

Cloud and Hosting


Amazon EC2 (Elastic Compute Cloud)
https://docs.aws.amazon.com/ec2/



AWS CLI (Command Line Interface)
https://docs.aws.amazon.com/cli/

Security & Environment Management


python-dotenv (Environment Variable Loader)
https://pypi.org/project/python-dotenv/

Version Control


Git (Version Control System)
https://git-scm.com/doc



GitHub (Repository Hosting)
https://docs.github.com/en

Visualization & Analysis


Matplotlib (2D Graphs and Charts)
https://matplotlib.org/stable/contents.html



Seaborn (Statistical Data Visualization)
https://seaborn.pydata.org/



Pandas (Data Manipulation and Analysis)
https://pandas.pydata.org/docs/

38

